docs(blog): created a release 2.8 blog post (#1825)
kumahq/kuma-website: app/_posts/2024-06-25-kuma-2-8-0.md

We started by introducing [`MeshService`](https://kuma.io/docs/2.8.x/networking/meshservice/) which brings and easier way to define and track a service.
In 2.8.x [`MeshExternalService`](/docs/2.8.x/networking/meshexternalservice/) provides a way to define a service which doesn't run with sidecars.
It's very clearly defined and [`HostnameGenerator`](https://kuma.io/docs/2.8.x/networking/hostnamegenerator/) enables you to define how to reach the service.

The following example shows how to expose httpbin as a service inside the mesh accessible through the address `mes-http.svc.meshext.local:80`.

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: HostnameGenerator
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: kuma-system
  labels:
    kuma.io/mesh: default
spec:
  selector:
    meshExternalService:
      matchLabels:
        kuma.io/origin: zone
  template: "{{ .DisplayName }}.svc.meshext.local"
---
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: MeshExternalService
metadata:
  name: mes-http
  namespace: kuma-system
  labels:
    kuma.io/mesh: default
spec:
  match:
    type: HostnameGenerator
    port: 80
    protocol: http
  endpoints:
    - address: httpbin.org
      port: 80
```

> In the coming releases of Kuma we'll be providing a default `HostnameGenerator` and potential extensions for integrating with complex infrastructure like aws lambda.

Reviewer: nitpick:

```suggestion
In the coming releases of Kuma we'll be providing a default `HostnameGenerator` and potential extensions for integrating with complex infrastructure like AWS lambda.
```

---
title: Kuma 2.8 release with MeshExternalService, MeshPassthrough and more...
description: Kuma 2.8 release with MeshExternalService, MeshPassthrough and more...
date: 2024-06-25
headerImage: /assets/images/blog/test-header.jpg
tags:
  - Release
---

We’re excited to announce the release of Kuma 2.8, featuring new and exciting capabilities such as `MeshExternalService`, `MeshPassthrough` policy, along with numerous improvements and groundwork for future developments.

# Notable features

> * A new `MeshExternalService` resource that overcomes existing issues with the `ExternalService` resource.

Reviewer 2: Limitations not issues

* A new `MeshPassthrough` policy that allows exposing external endpoints for rich clients through the mesh and support for wildcard domains.

> * HostnameGenerator provides a way to generate custom domains for your `MeshExternalServices`, offering enhanced security.

Reviewer: This sounds a bit weird 🤔 (the second part) and what security benefits does it offer?

```suggestion
* HostnameGenerator provides a way to generate custom domains for your `MeshExternalServices`.
```

Feel free to check our [release notes](https://github.com/kumahq/kuma/releases/tag/2.8.0) for the full list of changes.

## HostnameGenerator

It's a brand new resource [`HostnameGenerator`](/docs/2.8.x/networking/hostnamegenerator) that enables you to generate custom domain for your `MeshExternalService`. By default Kuma is generating a domain for your `ExternalService` by adding suffix `.mesh` to the name of your `ExternalService`. With this release, you now have control over the domain.

Let's take a look at this example:

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: HostnameGenerator
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: kuma-system
  labels:
    kuma.io/mesh: default
spec:
  selector:
    meshExternalService:
      matchLabels:
        kuma.io/origin: zone
  template: "{{ .DisplayName }}.svc.meshext.local"
```

and now let's create a `MeshExternalService`

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: MeshExternalService
metadata:
  name: mes-http
  namespace: kuma-system
  labels:
    kuma.io/mesh: default
spec:
  match:
    type: HostnameGenerator
    port: 80
    protocol: http
  endpoints:
  - address: httpbin.org
    port: 80
```

> In a brand new tab in the GUI, we can now see the generated domain address for our new `MeshExternalService`.

Reviewer: "brand new" repeated

```suggestion
In a new tab in the GUI, you can now see the generated domain address for `MeshExternalServices`.
```

![MeshExternalService view with a custom domain provided by the HostnameGenerator](/assets/images/blog/kuma_2_8_mes_hostname.png)

## MeshExternalService

> The `ExternalService` resource struggled with various issues, leading us to develop the more powerful [`MeshExternalService`](/docs/2.8.x/networking/meshexternalservice/) resource. This brand-new resource enables you to add external endpoints to your mesh and overcome the limitations of the `ExternalService`. `MeshExternalService` will eventually replace `ExternalService` and is currently in the alpha phase.

Reviewer: it uses "brand-new" once more and I don't think "to struggle" is the right verb when it comes to policies 🤔 

```suggestion
The `ExternalService` resource had some shortcomings, leading us to develop a more powerful [`MeshExternalService`](/docs/2.8.x/networking/meshexternalservice/) resource. This new resource enables you to add external endpoints to your mesh and overcome the limitations (should we name them? I feel like here we're just repeating what was said in the previous paragraph) of the `ExternalService`. `MeshExternalService` is currently in the alpha phase and will eventually replace `ExternalService`.
```

![MeshExternalService tab view](/assets/images/blog/kuma_2_8_mes.png)

> Additionally, you can see status information about the hostname and address of the `MeshExternalService`.

Reviewer: we've already mentioned that a couple of lines above:

> In a brand new tab in the GUI, we can now see the generated domain address for our new `MeshExternalService`.

![MeshExternalService status](/assets/images/blog/kuma_2_8_mes_status.png)

> ## MeshPasssthrough

Reviewer 2: Typo

> Some of the issues with `ExternalService` didn't align with the new design of `MeshExternalService`. As a result, we've introduced a new policy called [`MeshPassthrough`](https://kuma.io/docs/2.8.x/policies/meshpassthrough). This policy facilitates communication with external endpoints for rich clients and offers the flexibility to enable or disable [passthrough mode](/docs/2.8.x/networking/non-mesh-traffic/#outgoing) for individual sidecars. Learn more about passthrough mode.

Reviewer: should passthrough mode be a link?

should we add more info about what "rich clients" are?

```suggestion
Some of the issues with `ExternalService` didn't align with the new design of `MeshExternalService`. As a result, we've introduced a new policy called [`MeshPassthrough`](https://kuma.io/docs/2.8.x/policies/meshpassthrough). This policy facilitates communication with external endpoints for rich clients and offers the flexibility to enable or disable [passthrough mode](/docs/2.8.x/networking/non-mesh-traffic/#outgoing) for individual sidecars. Learn more about [passthrough mode](?).
```

> Some of the issues with `ExternalService` didn't align with the new design of `MeshExternalService`. As a result, we've introduced a new policy called [`MeshPassthrough`](https://kuma.io/docs/2.8.x/policies/meshpassthrough). This policy facilitates communication with external endpoints for rich clients and offers the flexibility to enable or disable [passthrough mode](/docs/2.8.x/networking/non-mesh-traffic/#outgoing) for individual sidecars. Learn more about [passthrough mode](?).

Reviewer 2: The link at the end is incomplete
